- Now let's take a look at what are the
implicit objects on a JSP page.
If you remember, in our search use case code,
on the search results JSP, on line number 42,
we had obtained the product's data
from the request code, and at that point in time,
I did mention that this is one of the implicit objects
that is available, by default, on this JSP page.
That's right.
So now we're going to talk about the JSP implicit objects.
There's a big list of the implicit objects that you have
in a JSP, let's go through them one by one.
First of all, what are implicit objects?
They're the ones that are already created on the JSP,
and they have pre-defined variable names.
So when you access them, you have to access them
with only that pre-defined name, and not any other name.
Let's start looking at the implicit objects one by one.
The first one is "out".
This object is basically, of the JSPWriter class,
and, this is the one which will help you
to print or write an output to the JSP page.
If you remember, whenever we wrote a response through
the servlet class, it was through the PrintWriter object.
Whenever you want to write in a response through a JSP,
you will use the JSPWriter object.
So this object is already created, the name of this object
is out, and you could just use it for your purposes
on the JSP page.
Let's quickly look at how this works,
so let's say I am on line number 57,
and if I want to use the out object,
I would just say, "out.println", and then
whatever I want to print would go inside those round
pair of brackets as an argument.
So that's how this is going to work.
This name is unchangeable, as I said,
because it's already named variable inside the JSP.
Let's look at the next one: request.
This is basically going to be for HTTPServletRequest object,
so this for the entire request for the JSP page,
and it's denoted by the request name that we already used
before in one of the demos, on line number 42.
Next, is the response object.
So the way you have a request object,
similarly, you have a response object,
which belongs to this class, and you can use it quickly,
let's go ahead and try it out on line number 57,
I'm just going to say "response.sendRedirect"
or whatever you would want to do,
as a part of this code, right?
Let's look at the next one: session,
that's the session object, which represents HTTPSession.
Now we have not looked into session management
right now, we're going to look at it soon.
So this is the one which is exclusively reserved for
session management, you can do loads of stuff
with it, on the JSP page.
So if you want to access this object,
it will be as simple as accessing it like this:
on line number 57, I just have to say, "session",
and then you can do whatever you want to do with it.
Let's say "session.getAttribute", and you can get
an attribute on the JSP page from the session's scope.
Next is the config; if you remember
we have already discussed the ServletConfig API
in one of our previous videos,
so if you really want to fetch any information
from the ServletConfig object, then you can use
this named variable and access
this object directly on the JSP page.
Similar to that is the ServletContext,
which is used to share information across all the servlets,
so you can use this named variable
called "application" and fetch whatever you want
out of the ServletContext object.
Next one is exception.
Now, exception is basically going to belong
to the exception class of Java,
and it can be used to debug your errors on the error pages.
So if you remember, we had indeed made an error page
in our application, which is this.
So, yes, you do print a beautiful error message here,
but it is also possible to debug what the error was
by accessing the exception implicit object.
So I'm going to do that on line number 11, I'll just
open up an expression element, and I can
just access this exception object,
and take a look at what the exception is,
so that I get to know the cause of the problem.
Next is, pageContext.
Now this is the hero of all the
implicit objects that we have.
That's because, it contains a reference to all the other
implicit objects, and it can be used
to access information of the page.
What I mean by this is, let's go back to the code
on searchResults.JSP line number 57,
I have this pageContext object,
and, I can go ahead, and access any other implicit object.
So let's say I want to access the request object,
I just have to call "getRequest".
If I want to access the response objects,
I just have to call the "getResponse" API.
If I want to access the JSPWriter object,
I just have to say, "getOut", and I'll get the JSPWriter.
So basically, if I want to access any other implicit object,
I can do so through the pageContext implicit object.
In addition to this, you also have the page implicit object,
which corresponds to the current JSP page.
So those are the nine implicit objects that we have in JSP,
and in the subsequent part of the course,
somewhere or the other use case will definitely use
one of these implicit objects, for sure.